# Game Design Document : Trickle Down

Revision 0.1.0 2024-11-21

Written by clicli

Based on [this template](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1axeeBWp683LPU8gCBQQqmquHMYHuG3uhNTN0LjSJBKk/mobilebasic#h.rdb2xo3rjh0s)

## Overview

### Theme / Setting / Genre

Space of late capitalism. Simulation and Clicker / Incremental.

A game about sending rich people to space without plans of getting them back.

Richmen are a resource generated by working a mineable job (classifying jokes written by AI) which
enrich people that want to be sent to space. Generating richmen has negative effects on the town,
which is harmonious.

### Core Gameplay mechanics brief

#### Planetary System context

The player controls a cannon (angle and power) to throw richmen into space from a given point in the home planet.

One a richmen is launched, the player can control it's rotation and thrust given the amount of fuel
it has allocated and efficiency of the engine.

The player has to achieve a series of milestones to succeed. Essentially crashing into all bodies of 
the system and establishing stable orbits around bodies.

Once the player runs out of richmen, it has to go to work.

#### Work context

A series of jokes written by AI will be shown to the player. The player has to decide wether the joke
is funny or not. The answer is inconsequential and the game is essentially a clicker. Everytime you
value a joke you make money for a richmen. Given a threshold, a new superrich that wants to go to space
is created.

Creating richmen has negative effects on the town.

#### Town context 

The town is a _hidden folks_ type of scene, where clicking on diverse elements cause amusing changes
or tell a story of this anarchist town.

Creating richmen has visible consequences on the town or negative news appear in a news feed.

Example of News feed:
The price of wi-fi increases, plans of a new train are halted in favor of a promised hyperloop,
laws for reducing number of work hours are halted.

Example of visible effects:
Buildings become gray and stop reacting to the player, some stories are cut off, pollution and smog
starts to pile up, sea level rises.

### Platforms

tablet, web and desktop

### Monetization model

ad fairy or voluntary donation.

### Project Scope

#### ETA

one month before the first feature-partial demo

two months for the feature-complete demo

three months for the polished product

#### Cost

Zero, essentially my time

### Influences brief

Kerbal Space Program, Grogl Incremental game and hidden folks

### Elevator Pitch

### Project Description brief

### Project Description detailed

## What sets this project apart?

### Core gameplay Mechanics (Detailed)

## Story and Gameplay

### Story Brief

### Story Detailed

### Gameplay Brief

### Gameplay Detailed

## Assets needed

### 2D

### Sound

### Code

### Animation

## Schedule

TBD
